Thank God for our choir.
I want to read verse 17 in your hearing.
But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them.
kept the male children alive.
Amen.
Watch down below on this Thursday night.
I want to preach as the Holy Spirit shall give me help as you shall pray for and with me from the topic hidden figures.
Lord bless your word.
Bless your preacher.
Your words, my mouth.
Holy Spirit, have your way.
Draw, compel.
Do your work.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
I am often amazed at who
God chooses to use.
If we pay attention to who God chooses and who God uses, God is not always predictable.
God does not always choose people that we think God should choose or use
But in many cases, God blows our mind concerning the choices that God makes about who God is going to use to do His will.
God does not always choose the most likely, but in so many cases, God
chooses and uses the unlikely.
God does not always choose the famous, but sometimes God chooses and uses the infamous.
God does not always choose or use the popular, but in many cases, God chooses and uses the unpopular.
God does not always choose or use the noble.
God sometimes chooses and uses the notorious.
God does not always choose and use the educated.
God sometimes, in the words of Paul, chooses and uses the simple to confound
the profound.
God chooses and uses people that we, if we're honest with ourselves, would not choose ourselves.
According to this Old Testament text, once again, God
chooses and uses people to do good that confound our imagination, disrupt our thought patterns, and make us wonder what God is up to.
Currently, according to the text, Pharaoh, the king of Egypt,
has launched a conspiracy to kill the Hebrew boys living in Egypt, motivated by insane insecurity and jealousy.
Pharaoh sees the Hebrews living in Egypt as a threat.
If the boys grow to full maturity and manhood, Pharaoh assumes they will join the Israeli army and overtake Egypt and the empire of Pharaoh.
Consequently, because Pharaoh does not see people
as collaborators, but sees everybody who doesn't look like him as competition.
Pharaoh tells the midwives to kill every boy that is born.
If it's a girl, let her live.
But if it's a boy, kill him.
while this took place over 5,000 years ago.
You pay attention to what's taking place in 2026.
We find striking similarities between the behavior of feral 5,000 years ago and the powers that be right now.
I wish I had some help on this Thursday night.
With popular music that glorifies the use of drugs, black on black crime, that calls people that look like you and I, N's, B's and H's, the conspiracy is still real.
with a preschool to prison pipeline that disproportionately affects black and brown children.
The conspiracy is still real.
With black and brown and poor children being miseducated, labeled and left behind, the conspiracy is still real.
with the prison industrial complex, treating doing time like it's a rites of passage.
The conspiracy is still real.
When you can find drugs and guns in any community with black and brown people, sooner than you can find libraries, the conspiracy is still real.
When young children are being detained by a so-called government agency, the conspiracy is still real.
Some of us who are too sanctified to believe that the conspiracy is real, but I dare you to open your eyes.
I dare you to pay attention.
While Pharaoh did it over 5,000 years ago, there's still a conspiracy to steal, kill, and destroy black and brown people in these United States of America.
While Pharaoh tried to kill the black and brown, the text says that
God raised up a woman by the name of Shippra.
Another woman by the name of poor who are committed not to destroying life, but to doing good so they could save life.
According to the text, Shippra and poor are midwives.
They are not popular, they are not prominent, they are midwives.
They are not distinguished or dignified.
They are midwives.
They are not esteemed or imminent.
They are not renowned or recognized.
They are midwives.
God uses hidden figures to do the work of the kingdom.
Can I preach on this Thursday night?
And I'm preaching this to encourage somebody who doesn't think you have the wherewithal, the ability, the gifts, the talents, the education, the savvy to be used by God.
No greater lie has been told.
If you have eyes God can use you.
If you got hands God can use you.
If you got a heart God can use you.
If you got a tongue God can use you.
If you got feet, God can use you.
Like God, you, Shippra, and Poah, God wants to use you and I to do good in the world.
And the text says that like God, you, Shippra, and Poah, God wants to use us in 2026 to do the work of the kingdom.
The text says that God uses hidden figures to do the work of the kingdom.
You don't have to have what somebody else has for God to use you.
You don't have to live where somebody else lives for God to use you.
You don't have to drive what somebody else drives for God to use you.
If you are available and willing, God can use you and I to do the work of the kingdom.
And while Pharaoh is trying to steal, kill, and destroy, God needs to use some shipper and pooas in 2026 to do good work in the world.
God uses shipper and poo watch chapel because the text says, while Pharaoh has made up his mind to kill the boys,
In Egypt, the text says, Shippur and Pua feared God so much that they did not do what the king said, but rather they served a king of kings, a higher king.
And Shippur and Pua, can I preach this on tonight, made up their mind they were going to do the right thing.
Despite what Pharaoh said, Shippra and Puah made up their mind as hidden figures, they were going to do the right thing.
And watch that for right now, God is looking for some men and women, despite what's happening around us to make up in our mind, we are going to do the right thing.
Regardless of what the government says, do the right thing.
Regardless of what Fox News says, do the right thing.
Regardless of what so-called politicians say, do the right thing.
God needs chipper, and God needs poor in 2026 to do the right thing.
These women, Shippra and Pua, not popular, not well-known, but midwives do the right thing, watch chapel, because of their conscience.
I wish I had some help tonight.
The text says that Pharaoh passes a law, puts it out to everybody that the boys should not live, but the boys should die.
Notice, watch, Dappell, this takes place before the Ten Commandments.
The Ten Commandments take place in Exodus chapter 20, but Chippra and Puah love God so much that they have something called a conscience.
It doesn't have to be law, but they know it's something wrong about killing boys.
They are made in the image of God.
Can I preach this?
They are born to a mother and father.
These boys have possibilities.
They have promise.
They have potential.
There's something wrong about killing somebody made in the image of Almighty God.
And Shippra and Pua make up in their mind.
They are not going to kill these boys because they have a conscience.
But I'm preaching tonight.
to challenge somebody wherever you are, wherever you go, to do the right thing because God has given all of us a conscience.
I don't care what the government says, right is right and wrong is wrong.
We got to learn to take our cues from God and the Holy Ghost and Jesus and not merely what the government says.
Right is right, wrong is wrong.
Cannot preach on this Thursday night.
It's wrong to abuse people.
It's wrong to shoot people down in the street.
It's wrong to take human life.
It's wrong to put people in detention centers.
It's wrong to give to the rich and starve the poor.
It's wrong to treat black folk one way and white folk another way.
It's wrong to treat the wealthy one way and the poor one way.
It's wrong.
And when we have a conscience like Shippra and Poor, we make up in our mind we are going to do the right thing because we have something called a conscience.
They do the right thing and save the lives of these boys because they have a conscience.
But not only do they have a conscience, they do the right thing despite the conspiracy to kill these boys because they choose courage over convenience.
Help me do my good preaching, Holy Spirit.
It is easy.
to be convenient.
Convenience doesn't require much.
I wake up, go about my business.
If it doesn't impact me or mine, I'm good.
I don't have to stretch.
I don't have to pray for nobody.
I don't have to care for nobody.
As long as me, my, and I are good, then I'm good.
But like Shipra and Pua, God does not call us to make decisions based on convenience.
There has to be a time in our lives where we make the decision to choose courage over convenience.
Shipra and Pua could have led their little comfortable lives
and allow these boys to die.
They could have gone, collected their check, went home, and not been concerned about these boys.
But Shippering Pool, led by conscience, possessed enough courage to say we're not going to do what Pharaoh says we should do.
We fear God too much.
that we are going to choose courage instead of convenience.
And right now watch chapel, there are people in our world who will benefit from the choices we make to choose courage over convenience.
In a few weeks, in a few days, we're about to launch the celebration of African-American history, month 28 days,
Amen in the month of February.
Amen.
And we celebrate African American history month to watch chapel because we come from mothers and fathers, matriarchs and patriarchs who chose courage over convenience.
I wish I had some help on this Thursday night.
If I had time, I could call the roll because we wouldn't be here had our mothers and fathers.
Not shows courage over convenience.
They chose courage over convenience so we could drive what we drive.
They chose courage over convenience so we could live where we live.
They chose courage over convenience so we could wear what we wear, drive what we drive, live where we live, go where we go.
Vacation where we vacation come to church on a Thursday night on the edge of Kerry, North Carolina, where we were not living a hundred years ago.
But we were sharecroppers.
Y'all ain't talking to me.
But now because they chose courage over convenience, we can be up and watch chapel.
JDs, MBAs, PhDs, blue collar workers, skilled trade workers, lifting card, praising card, and spirit adding truth because they chose courage.
Over convenience, do I have some help now?
Y'all gonna help me do my good preaching?
We'd better thank God for the shippers and pours of our world who chose courage over convenience so we could be where we are on this Thursday night.
Can I preach up in here?
Y'all sit down.
There.
Pharaoh said, don't save the lives of the boys.
The text says, shipper and poor, fear God.
more than they feared Pharaoh.
They did the right thing because they chose courage over convenience.
They did the right thing because they had conscience.
These women did the right thing, watch chapel, because they had confidence in the capacity of God to care.
Let me run that by you again.
They had confidence in the capacity of God to care.
The Israelites are now living in Egypt.
Texas is in verse eight, Reverend Daniel, that there's a Pharaoh who knew not Joseph.
But while Pharaoh, the new Pharaoh, was ignorant or ignored
the legacy and lineage of Joseph.
There's some women by the name of Shipprah and Poor who remembered that the God they serve was a God who cared.
I wish I had some help tonight.
They remember how God took care of Abraham and Sarah.
They remember how God took care of Isaac and Rebecca.
They remember how God took care of Jacob, Rachel, and Liam.
They remember how God took care of Joseph and Asinoth, and how God took care of all of his children, and how God had been their keeper, how God had been their provider.
And now these women have the sanctified audacity
to believe that if God could care then, the same God cares right now.
If God could take care of Abraham and Sarah, then the same God can take care of me.
If God can take care of Isaac and Rebecca, the same God can take care of me.
If God could take care of Jacob, Rachel, and Leah, then God can take care of me.
If God can take care of Joseph and his wives and his children, then the same God can take care of me.
I don't know who I'm talking to right now, but if God could take care of your grandmother and grandfather.
Then God can take care of you.
If God can take care of Big Mama and Papa, then God can take care of you.
If God can take care of your aunt and your uncles, then God can take care of you.
If God can take care of everyone, then God can take care of you.
Somebody knows God sits high, but he looks low.
God has the whole world in his hands.
And if God could do it 5,000 years ago, the God of the Bible is still alive.
God is still performing miracles.
God is still healing bodies.
God is still opening doors.
God is still making ways.
God is still making the enemy behave.
And the text says that they made up in their mind.
They were not going to kill the boys, but they were going to let the boys live.
And because they took care of God's creation, God rewarded their righteousness.
The text says, God gave them children and families of their own.
Because they did the right thing.
I'm going to my seat right now.
But keep on doing the right thing.
Keep on serving.
Keep on preaching.
Keep on being a blessing.
Keep on taking the high road.
Keep on forgiving.
Keep on loving God.
Keep on loving God's people.
Keep doing justice.
Keep loving mercy.
Keep walking humbly with God.
And God in his own time is gonna bless you because you were a blessing.
Let me close the way I feel like closing.
If you wanna be blessed, then be a blessing.
If you want God to bless you, bless somebody else.
And God, it is all time.
It is all the way.
We'll bless your life.
I wish I had a witness in here who could testify.
I'm blessed.
I was blessed coming in.
I'm blessed right now.
I'm gonna be blessed going out.
Got shoes on my feet.
Bless.
Gotta sweat it on my collar.
I got good hair with a bottle of that.
Bless.
Anybody in the house, bless tonight?
Do I have any blessed believers?
Not cursed, but blessed.
Everywhere I look, I see a blessing.
Okay.
God for being blessed, praise God for God's open hand.
Stand to your feet.
God blesses these women because they were blessing to somebody else.
Be not dismayed.
Whatever be tied.
God will.
I said he will.
I said God will.
Somebody on this Thursday night, if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior,
I want you to walk forward and accept Jesus Christ as savior of your life.
If you're saved, but don't have a church home, I want you to walk down the aisle right now.
Become a member of the Watch Chapel and Missionary Baptist Church.
So Thursday night, God allowed us to be here.
You are a hidden figure.
Your name hadn't been in the news and observer, but God is using you to be a blessing to somebody else.
You hadn't been on CNN.
You hadn't been on MSNBC.
You hadn't been on Nightline.
You hadn't been on ABC.
You hadn't been on WRAL.
But God can use hidden figures.
Y'all remember that movie a few years ago?
black women who worked for NASA.
We didn't even know that story.
Hidden figures.
It ain't always the popular.
It ain't always the people who are so-called celebrities.
It ain't always the it crowd.
It's the everyday salt of the earth, light of the world people.
Somebody God wants to use your brother.
God wants to save you.
You're not saved.
I want you to walk down the aisle, brother, sister, family.
You're saved, but you don't have a church on.
You need to get connected to a Bible believing, good news preaching, spirit field church who can pack out church on a Thursday night.
Thursday night.
Ain't Sunday morning.
It's Thursday night.
Brother, sister, I'm talking to you now.
You come from wherever you are.
Amen.
Don't hold off until next Sunday or Sunday after next.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
If I'm talking to you tonight, wherever you are, watch now.
I will ask your neighbor to your right or to your left.
Do you want to accept Jesus tonight?
Tell him I walk down with you.
Do you want to join the church?
Do you need a church family?
Tell them I walk down with you.
Only count of three.
One, two, three.
Ask somebody.
Put a smile on your face.
Fix your face, amen.
Like my momma said, fix your face.
Get your mind right.
You got a smile when you talk about Jesus, amen.
Don't be mean, bugging amen.
Hey, man, y'all, y'all remember your momma used to tell you to fix your face now.
Repeat after me, God, I thank you for the gift of salvation.
God, I admit I'm a sinner.
I believe that Jesus Christ died for me and was resurrected on the third day for the salvation of my sins.
God, I confess Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of my life.
And I'm going to do what He tells me to do so I can be who He wants me to be.
Amen.
That's the first time you've prayed that prayer.
I want you to walk forward.
If you prayed that prayer, you comprehend it, you digest it.
Please be seated.
Watch the apple out deacons and associate ministers are coming forward now as we partake of the Lord's Supper and distribute the elements.